AN oUTLINE ms'rochL s'runr. 77

2. E lwert.

⁶ It was reserved for Elwert († 1865) to develop most thor-
oughly the theory of inspiration based upon principles laid down
by Schleiermacher. This view supposes the apostles to have been
inspired, only in so far as the spirit works in them a faith by
which they appropriated to themselves the revelation of Christ,
and so far as from this, by means of faith, in the natural way of
reflection, their religious ideas and conceptions found develop—
ment.' ¹

The differences between this later and the earlier idea of inspi-
ration, are thus summed up.²

' a. ‘⁶ The sacred writers in the composition of their works were
by no means in a purely passive condition3 they rather made use
of their natural powers and capacitieS, and impressed upon their
productions unmistakably the stamp of their own individuality.

b. “ The possession of the Holy Ghost in the case of the apostles
was generically one with the participation of others in the same
gift3 but, agreeably to the end which was to be accomplished
through them, and conformably to their relation to the original
revelation in Christ, it was in their case pre-eminent in degree.

c. “The influence of the Holy Ghost upon them was not a
suggestion of elaborated ideas and knowledges. The Spirit rather
wrought in them the faith swhich was the mediating element
between their religious conceptions and the revelation of Christ.

d. “ The operation of the Holy Ghost is to be referred, not so
much to individua] matters as to the whole manner of thinking
and feeling on the part of the apostles‚ within whom he dwelt as
a permanent principle. The older theory was riqlzt in so far as it
admitted his activity in every single part: in the resolution to
write, in the formation of the thoughts and words, and in selec-
tion and arrangement. But it was wronq in this, that it admitted
that relation of the divine activity at all points, equally and
immediately.

e. “The idea of an unconditional infallibility of the apostolic
writings is to be abandoned. Infallible they were, in so far as
this, that they, and indeed they alone, lead the Christian soul to

 

¹ Baur, Doqm.·9esoh.‚ 111: 430.
· ² Id. ib.

